---
layout: default
title: "11 Hobbies in 11 months"
category: ambitions
tags: goals hobbies time-management drawing painting investing starcraft languages german korean
---

I have a problem. Generally, for those of you who might know me in person, I am always enamoured by projects and ideas that I like to do.

Perhaps, on any given day that you might talk to me; I would have found interesting things about drawing or painting or investing or business. I would talk about languages or how a particular style of painting has captured my imagination. 

As I mentioned in my last post, business and startups were the talk of the town, I probably would have suggested that YOU turn YOUR hobbies and passions into a money making machine. (and I am truly sorry about it). 

I get interested in many things at once; and it's something I just chalk myself up as being; from nature and nurture I've developed a keen interest and understanding of many things at once. Being this way might work in some cases of problem solving and getting out of a pickle, but often causes me a sense of stress and anxiety that overcomes my being -- that is, that I can't fit 25 things into a 24 hour day. 

# What is a year worth anyway? 

For the next 70 years of my life I will have a young one to look after. The year ahead is going to be with a newborn that I will have to juggle between working and family affairs. I don't suppose that it will all be an endless cleaning of poo (watch this space), but I do feel like I won't have the time to be stressed about doing my 500 things at once. 

Indeed my last 2-3 days have been stressing about how to do 2-3 things per day; in the roughly 4 hours I have after work and between-the-times that make up my life: How can I be learning German and Korean effectively while I'm also meant to be drawing and painting and learning piano and investing? (Not to mention my volunteering in the eco-village of which I live - something to write about another time).

So instead of stressing about the 50 things; I'll instead divert my attention to spending one year (this year) trying 12 different things. Theory being is that one year is not a lot of wasted time. After the year is through, I would have spent a month in any one field; and hopefully write enough about it so that I can judge whether I actually like the activity, and how much time it would have taken, and whether it's worthwhile to pursue further.

Here might be a preliminary list, that I will no doubt change as time goes on, with or without updating this post. For now, this is my thinking:

## [January - Investing](/11-hobbies/2022/01/17/investing.html)

While the month is half way done, I don't have a lot of room to set up any particular thing, so I will instead focus on finishing the book I'm reading: "The book of Value" - which attempts to show how to price a company and whether you might find a company that is valued particularly well under its price. 

I would hope to set something reasonable up sooner, and keep tabs on it throughout the year; but the remainder of this month is to get it set up and to learn a bit of the art of investing so that I have something to keep an eye on for the remainder of the year without much involvement on my part. 

## February - Oil Painting

After my January birthday, I might take up painting and do a few of Bob Ross' lessons to bring me back up to speed. I used to oil paint a while ago and I do find it a calming activity and makes for good gifts to give to people; some people like art, and it is a worthwhile hobby to pursue.

The goal of this month would be to paint, maybe 2 - 3 times a week, and document progress in this blog. Early estimates suggest I should have about 8 - 12 new paintings in which to use as evidence of my skills and progression in this hobby, and I should write out whether I enjoyed it as much as I think I do. 

## March - German

March is the baby due date, which means there's a chance that the month will get interrupted more often than not. Perhaps best kept to light reading and audio. I'll try and keep my mind nimble by studying the language, and honing it as much as I can; but I don't make much promises here, as there's no real telling what the newborn will do to us. (It's possible that I will be so distracted by the newborn as well, so everything past this point is total speculation that I won't be preoccupied with the baby in the first place.) -- but for the sake of this blog I must continue.

## April - Korean 

April will be lack of sleep with a newborn; Perfect to dabble further in a little bit of language. It is my dirty secret that I like languages, and I like the look and sound of Korean; I've been so interested in learning it for a while, but without the time and ability to juggle it in amongst other things, I usually do a real cocked job of even finding my own reason to do it.

The whole reason I'm dedicating this month to it, is so that I can use this time to solely focus on it and find out if I'm really enjoying it; do I actually like it? Am I able to dedicate myself to it? Will I find things interesting about it or is it just going to bore me? (I'm not a huge fan of K-Dramas, which is 96% of the material online).

## May - GO

I've loved the game of GO ever since I found out about it, and I can play it enough to be beaten by an 8 year old. I suppose this month might be to get an actual board set (because I did want one) and also be able to do some puzzles in it. Some books present puzzles to do, as well as some apps, so it's really up to what I'm thinking here. 

There's an official ranking too, so perhaps it would be sensible to try and reach a particular level, except with the baby there is no real promises. Instead I should focus on the game and tournaments and understanding it at a decent spectator level, rather than trying to be a participant. Understanding what the professionals do, for instance.

## June - Drawing

I'd like to stick to drawing in this month, and work through the book "How to Draw ..." by Scott Robertson. These are more technical drawings, but are still creative in many ways and allows me to perhaps get concept art out. 

Initially I thought of drawing things like cars and planes, but I could imagine architecture drawings could be effective as well. Ideally I'd be able to draw a wide range of things to be able to express myself effectively in many ways, but I'll have to see what I can muster up during this month and hopefully it will reach a suitable level quickly so that I could continue it on again if I decide I like it. 

# Where to, from here? 

After that, 6 months will have past, and I have done 6 hobbies that are most pressing on my mind currently (as of a few weeks ago). It would be the right time for me to stop and take stock of what I have done and enjoyed. Hopefully I would be able to answer, for each of them, questions such as "Do I want to draw? Do I find drawing enjoyable? Or is it that I simply want to be known as someone who draws?"

There's 6 more months that I also need to dish out, and perhaps repeat some of the hobbies (maybe I didn't find it particularly enlightening and would want to give a hobby another try?) to further flesh out the ideas from that activity.

Other hobbies might include:

* Starcraft and Esports (which might take on some of the korean learning, depending if it's good enough or not)
* Classical Maths
* Tennis (Pending Covid situation)
* Classical music (study of history, themes, etc)
* Learning Piano
* Software projects
* Writing and poetry

And a few other items. During these 6 months I will have to write down any further ideas that come to mind, and then add them to the list to choose from when I revisit this to sort out the later 6 months. Then once a year is gone, I will have information on things I want to do and how much time in my life it takes up. Hopefully it will be enlightening to the both of us.

# Plan starts on Monday

The holidays are soon over, and I can get back into the much needed routine of work. With a routine and home structure, it should give me enough comfort and security to be able to get into these hobbies without fear of losing time or effort. As mentioned in my last post, I have the next 5 years to do what I want, so I be able to try things and see what I really like. 
