---
layout: default
title: "New years resolutions and 5 year plans"
category: ambitions
---

There's been a curve ball in my thoughts lately. Up until this point, I've been focused and aimed towards branching out and starting my own business. Creating a startup, a side business, building things that help people and making money from it. 

Part of this might have just been to do with my relatively poor upbringing and the desire to move foward financially and securely; Buy my own house, pay it off, become self sufficient. For this I need an impossibly large amount of money, and for that I need to create a startup.

# Realising the pieces don't fit together

Another aspect of my life is finding my lovely wife Melinda, and having a newborn child on the way. As of writing this, the baby is due in 2 and half months; We've got just about everything ready and I'm eager to look forward to the new member of our growing little family.

Reading Paul Graham's [How to make wealth](http://www.paulgraham.com/wealth.html) article pointed the bleeding obvious to me:

> Economically, you can think of a startup as a way to compress your whole working life into a few years. Instead of working at a low intensity for forty years, you work as hard as you possibly can for four. This pays especially well in technology, where you earn a premium for working fast.

This is what I've been wanting, a condensed amount of years in which I work as hard as I can. The alternatives (ie: Working for a big company) never really appealed to me. I want to be known for what work I do.

But am I going to lock myself away? am I going to miss the raising of my child to fulfil silly support requests and building silly apps in my home? Can I balance the two? is there too much promise; having the cake, and eating it too? 

# Where the train came from

Trying to pin where my "start-a-startup" ideals started, it was early years of uni, as this was my first real break out to become my own person in many ways and where I needed to be able to look after myself and deal with my own money.

* 2014 - First year uni
* 2015 - Second year uni ** 
* 2016 - Gap year to work
* 2017 - Third year uni ** 
* 2018 - Gap year to work
* 2019 - Forth year uni (1/3)
* 2020 - Forth year uni (2/3)
* 2021 - Forth year uni (3/3)

I would probably say that 2015 was around the time I got a taste for small business, as I began to help someone with computer troubles in a small retail store. They paid me in cash (usually $20 - $50 for a days work, under the table of course) and was literally the only job I was able to get at the time. They later became my friend and helped me along with many things of my own doing. 

Dealing with their computer stuff, I found [Shopify](https://shopify.com) and their paid apps. I thought it was an amazing deal and should definitely get into it; but I had to focus on my studies, and I was not yet disciplined enough to balance my own work. 

Then I fluffed up my resume to the point of outright silliness and got a job in the retail store [Jaycar](https://jaycar.com). From there I was able to actually build a more legitimate resume, and moved on, up the career ladder, because it was the much easier option. 

In 2016 and 2017 I tried to do my own business along with work, giving a lot of money to one of my nerd friends to build things for me, but I had no real what a business was or what we were building. If I was sensible, I probably should have just paid attention to Shopify apps, but I wanted to go up and beyond with absolutely no experience or logical thinking of why my ideas were better than something already thriving. 

Then going back to uni, I was working part time along with uni, and got a lot better at the time management aspects to it; I got promoted in work quite a lot, and got a job offer in head office (interstate) as a technical officer. Again, it was money, it was easier than doing my own thing. 

# Stopping the train for refuelling

Then we fast forward, I change company and now have a great job working for [Octopus Energy](https://octopus.energy). I absolutely enjoy my time at Octopus, and all the while I keep thinking of things to do on the side; how I can make money, how I can drop it all and start a side-business; even just something to produce a little bit of cash on the side. 

After 5 - 6 years of this (assuming it starting from back in 2015 / 2016) and a new-born on the way, I think it's time to shift gears a little; I still want to be creating things that help people, and be a useful contributing member of society, but I want to also ensure that I spend some time with my family over the next 5 years. 

# The new period

Not to over-promise or lock myself behind a schedule, I think my next 5 year period is going to be a little less economical in nature, more creating, experimenting and nurturing. 

## Open source instead of business service

Trying to make things "business ready" means trying to make sure that it's a comfortable experience for people, and that all the information is there, and that everything looks good enough and has friendly UX. And that I can fix something up at the drop of a hat when someone needs me to.

I'd rather just make projects that fit my needs; and open source them to see if other people might find them useful as aswell. I think I should be able to learn a lot from seeing what other people do and how other people react to some of *my* project and ideas, not just what I think services their business needs. 

## Other modes of creating

Along with spending time with the baby, I think I might also like to get back into oil painting, as I used to do. And/or learning how to draw. I have [How to Draw: Drawing and Sketching objects and environments from your Imagination](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15808089-how-to-draw) by Scott Robertson, and it seems to be a great book so far. I just need to actually put the pen to paper.

There's also this blog which definitely needs work. Maybe I can write in it more if I'm less worried about trying to come up with business ideas.

## Saving, Investing, Securing.

Ashamedly I spend a lot of time and money looking into business literature and things of that ilk. I should cut out a lot of that, as it does not immediately produce much benefit. Instead; focus on the above creations. Spend time with myself, spend time with my family. 

Investing might be the one way I can satisfy my itch; I also have the book of value, which is another great book; talking about how to analyse businesses and select stocks that are priced under their value. More to come on that later.

## Abilities and skills

I live in an eco-village that needs work, I also want to get good at my job. I can practise the ability to organise and manage and work in these aspects,  rather than trying to rely on starting my own business from scratch and learning everything there. I can take up leadership in my life in more ways than one. 

## Fitness and language

Fitness is always a think that I can try and make time for, and I can do it guilt free if I don't worry about trying to make a buck every other time. 

Language is another thing; Perhaps I would like to continue my dabbling of languages, and I can do it more, with giving myself a 5 year period. 


# R-and-R

Ultimately, I think this next 5 year period might just be classified by "R-and-R". I have a young family now that I need to take care of, and taking this period off isn't "the end of all ambition" but rather a refocusing of what I want to do, and giving myself time to experiment, learn, and play with my newborn.
